---
layout: careers 
title: Guidelines for Requesting a Letter of Recommendation for Graduate Programs
date: Dec 15, 2023
mathjax: true
---

<table style="border-collapse: collapse; width: 100%; margin: 20px 0;">
  <tr>
    <td style="border: 1px solid #ddd; padding: 15px;">
      <strong>Update 10/30/24</strong>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="border: 1px solid #ddd; padding: 15px;">
      I am now limiting my letter of recommendation (LOR) writing to students with whom I have a substantial, multi-class or multi-project relationship. 
      <br><br>
      Specifically:
      <ul>
        <li><i>Participation</i> in the Data Science Clinic alone is no longer sufficient to receive a letter.</li>
        <li>If I was the direct mentor or TA on your clinic project for at least a quarter then I am willing to write a letter, assuming the guidelines below are satisfied.</li>
      </ul>
      <br>
      This decision is largely due to shifts in the impact of LORs in the age of Generative AI. <br><br>Additionally, I reserve the right to reconsider any LOR request if a student engages in unprofessional behavior, such as visiting my office without an appointment, sending repeated requests without allowing reasonable response time, or attempting to meet during a class they are not enrolled in.
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>


If you're considering asking me to write a Letter of Recommendation (LOR) for a graduate program, please be aware of these essential guidelines:

#### Timing and Preparation
- **Advance Notice:** I require a minimum of **30 days' notice** prior to the first application deadline.
- **Complete Application Packet:** A request for an LOR must be accompanied by a full application packet, which includes:
  - An **up-to-date resume**.
  - Your **most recent transcript**.
  - A well-crafted **Statement of Purpose**.
  - A list of the **schools and programs** to which you are applying.

If you cannot provide these materials at least 30 days before the first deadline, I will not be able to write the letter.

#### Quality of the Letter
- **Acquaintance Level:** The strength of the LOR is directly related to how well I know the applicant.
  - **Minimal Acquaintance:** If our interaction was limited to a single class or academic term where you performed well, my ability to write a detailed and impactful letter is limited. Such letters are typically brief and less impactful.
  - **Extensive Interaction:** If we have had multiple interactions (e.g., you were a teaching assistant, I was your mentor, you attended multiple courses I taught, etc.), the letter will likely be more substantial and compelling.
- **Experience:** The strength of the LOR is also proportional to the experience itself. If I worked with you in a way that was not a positive experience for me such as you disappeared for a month or were just unpleasant or unprofessional these will not yield strong letters.

Before asking me to write a letter, consider whether I am familiar enough with your academic and professional achievements to write a strong recommendation. Feel free to discuss this with me for an honest assessment.

#### Considerations for Research-Focused Programs
- **PhD Programs/Research Programs:** While I hold a PhD, I am primarily a practitioner and not actively involved in academic research. This is an important consideration because, for PhD applications (especially) at top-tier universities, a recommendation from an active researcher will carry _far more_ weight than one from a practitioner like me. If you are considering such a program I strongly recommend looking for letter writers who are more research focused.
